I. Task Description
In this assignment, you will implement encrypted communications between two parties, Alice
and Bob, and evaluate the performance of AES and RSA under different parameters. For
simplicity, Alice and Bob will be simulated by two programs running on the same computer.
When Alice sends a message to Bob, she writes the message to a file; Bob receives the message
through reading from the file. (If you know socket/network programming, you can also directly
implement socket/network communications between the two.)

Part 1: Implement encryption and decryption using AES with 192-bit key. Assume that Alice
and Bob already have a shared secret key k (e.g., they can read the key from the same file). Alice
encrypts an 18-byte message m (the message is manually input from command line), and writes
the ciphetext into a file named ctext. Bob reads the ciphertext from the file, decrypts it, and prints
the message m. The encryption should use the CBC mode.

Part 2: Implement encryption and decryption using RSA with 2048-bit key. Assume that Alice
already has got Bob’s public key (you need to figure out a way to do this). Alice encrypts an 18-
byte message m (the message is manually input from command line) using Bob’s public key, and
writes the ciphetext into a file named ctext. Bob reads the ciphertext from the file, decrypts it,
and prints the message m.

Part 3: Measure the performance of AES and RSA under different parameters. Take a 7-byte
message manually input from command line. Implement AES with 128-bit, 192-bit, and 256-bit
keys. For each key size, run the encryption over the 7-byte message and decryption of its
ciphertext for one hundred times, measure the average time needed for one encryption, and
measure the average time needed for one decryption. Implement RSA with 1024-bit, 2048-bit,
and 4096-bit keys. For each key size, run the encryption over the 7-byte message and decryption
of its ciphertext for one hundred times, measure the average time needed for one encryption, and
measure the average time needed for one decryption. Print the average time of encryption and
decryption for each key size for AES and RSA.